Q: When do the Brooklyn STEAM Center programs occur?
A: The Brooklyn STEAM Center programs occur during the regular school day, in the morning for Year 2 scholars and in the afternoon for Year 1 scholars. We operate the same days as the partner high school, offering instruction five days a week for 2.5 hours each day.
Q: When do you decide which CTE pathway I want to study? Can I choose more than one?
A: You will rank all of the CTE Programs on the supplemental application that you will complete near the end of Grade 10. Scholars typically attain their first choice. Unfortunately, our programs are designed for two full years of instruction, which means you can only enroll in one program.
Q: How will I know that I was accepted? Is there an orientation?
A: The scholar, identified parent/guardian, and the respective school counselor will receive an email notification that you have been accepted that will also identify the appropriate CTE program that you can either accept or decline. Accepted scholars and their families will be invited to an orientation.
Q: You said students will be splitting their day, what does that mean?
A: The Brooklyn STEAM Center is located on the Brooklyn Navy Yard, which is geographically separate from all of our partner high schools. Scholars in our program spend half of their school day with us and the other half at their home high school. We provide complimentary yellow bus shuttles during the middle of the day for scholars to travel between the two locations to ensure punctuality and avoid harsh weather.
Q: Where does postsecondary education fit in the Brooklyn STEAM Center model?
A: We believe that learning is a lifelong process, so we encourage our youth to start “Learning & Earning” when they’re with us and beyond, programs such as college, trade school, and apprenticeships are all viable options post-graduation.
Q: How do industry partners typically participate?
A: Usually, partners work with us throughout the year by sitting on our Advisory Council, Hosting Interns, or smaller work-baed learning opportunities; the method you participate in is like a menu, you can choose a specific engagement, more than one, or all of the above.
Q: What is the expectation around intern pay and workers’ compensation insurance?
A: Although we are always excited for partners that are willing to compensate interns, we understand that might not always be an option; regardless, all interns are compensated, and we will use our budget where available to pay the prevailing minimum wage rate. Workers’ compensation insurance is the responsibility of the organization that pays the scholar, so if we’re paying, we’ve covered the legality there.

